but in 1979 I get an assignment from
Newsweek magazine to photograph this
author he doesn't like to be
photographed but we do know he picks up
his mail in Windsor Vermont so I waited
and then this Jeep pulls out he gets out
and he goes into the post office really
quickly and as it came back I got it I
got Salinger the publication of Catcher
in the Rye in 1951 was a revolution
there had not been a voice like that
when you're a kid and you read Catcher
in the Rye you're just like oh my god
somebody gets it remember that being the
first book there take with you
it is a phenomena how many minions and
minions came to that book the great
mysteries why he stopped Salinger was
the national story a shooting star at
the height of that success he disappears
he became the Howard Hughes of his day
mystery we all like a mystery the Second
World War created JD Salinger there was
a lot of mystery about what he did in
the army very few people have seen as
much death Salinger suffered a nervous
breakdown
he's got this concrete bunk away he
lives he has a very fanatical readership
if one person used something I had
written as the justification for killing
somebody
I'd say God people are crazy
that was literally living inside of JD
Salinger catching a ride but if three
people use something I had written as
justification I would be very very
troubled by it he wanted nothing to come
between him and his characters they were
real to him he moved them about the
stage like God
you cannot dismiss the issues of his
private life people heard and people he
trusted he said you have ruined my life
I saw two manuscripts what's in that
vault someone cracks that code man it's
gonna be the story of the century
writing a book is a horrible exhausting
struggle one would never undertake such
a thing if one were not driven by some
demon and he had demons
[Music]